docs/source/creating_experiment.rst, before:

==========================
Designing a new experiment
==========================

Core plugins
------------
Psiexperiment ships with five core plugins that are always loaded when an experiment is started:

* **Context** - 
* **Data** - Manages saving, analysis and plotting of data.
* **Controller** - Manages experiment.
* **Token** - Manages generation of both epoch (i.e., finite in duration) and continuous (i.e., infinite in duration) waveforms.
* **Calibration** - Manages calibrations of inputs and outputs. Right now only acoustic inputs and outputs (e.g., microphones and speakers) are supported. Offers chirp, golay and tone-based calibration algorithms.


Getting started
---------------

Psiexperiment is a plugin-based system where the plugins determine the experiment workflow. At a minimum, an experiment must provide the following:

* A list of parameters and/or results
* The inputs and outputs that will be used
* The stimuli (i.e., tokens) that will be generated
* Actions to take when certain events occur.
 
Your experiment configuration file will define `EXPERIMENT`, which is the name of the experiment and will typically contain the following extensions:

.. code-block:: enaml

    enamldef ControllerManifest(BaseManifest): manifest:

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.sinks'
            point = 'psi.data.sinks'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.tokens'
            point = 'psi.token.tokens'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.io'
            point = 'psi.controller.io'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.selectors'
            point = 'psi.context.selectors'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.context'
            point = 'psi.context.items'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.actions'
            point = 'psi.controller.actions'
            ...

Let's take a closer look at each of the extensions.


Actions
.......

At a minimum, you will typically define the following two actions (customized for your needs):

.. code-block:: enaml

    Extension:
        id = EXPERIMENT + '.actions'
        point = 'psi.controller.actions'

        ExperimentAction:
            event = 'experiment_initialize'
            command = 'psi.context.initialize'
            kwargs = {'selector': 'default', 'cycles': 1}

        ExperimentAction:
            event = 'engines_configured'
            command = 'dpoae.start'
            kwargs = {'delay': 0.5}

When you press the `start` button on the toolbar, this fires a sequence of three events, `experiment_initialize`, `experiment_prepare` and `experiment_start`.  While `experiment_initialize` and `experiment_prepare` are very similar, certain actions may require that the context has been initialized. To simplify this, we have added `experiment_initialize`. The `psi.context.initialize` command should *always* be bound to this event (if it's bound to `experiment_prepare`, you may get errors if commands bound to `experiment_prepare` need to get the current value of a variable).

Under the hood, the controller will configure the engines during the `experiment_prepare` phase. If you want to configure one of the outputs (in this case, `dpoae`) during this phase, be sure to bind it to the `engine_configured` event to ensure it gets executed after the engine is configured (the engine must be configured before it can properly receive waveform samples from the outputs).


Sequence of events during an experiment
.......................................
* `plugins_started` - All plugins have finished loading. Now, you can perform actions that may require access to another plugin; however, do not assume that the plugins have finished initializing. A number of logging actions are tied to this step.

* `experiment_initialize` - All plugins should have been initialized. This is where you will typically initialize the context (and nothing else).

* `context_initialized` - This only follows `experiment_initialize` if `psi.context.initialize` has properly been bound to `experiment_initialize`. The `psi.context.finalize_io` method is called during this event. During this step, all "orphan" inputs and outputs (i.e., ones where the target or source is specified by name rather than as part of the hierarchy) are connected.

* `experiment_prepare` - The majority of actions required prior to starting an experiment should be tied to this event since the context will now be available for queries.

* `engines_configured` - TODO

* `experiment_start` - Starts the data acquisition engines.

* `experiment_end` - Stops the data acquisition engines.


The power of actions
....................
Actions allow you to insert your own code or invoke commands at any point in the experiment process. A few examples:

* The `abr_base.enaml` file calls a custom function when the `experiment_prepare` event is called. This function reviews the settings specified by the user to determine the sequence of the tone pips (e.g., conventional vs. interleaved, alternating polarity, etc.) and sets up the queue accordingly. While it's theoretically possible to set this using plugins offered by psiexperiment (e.g., alternating polarity could be specified as a "roving" context item), this custom function makes the user interface much simpler and more fool-proof.

* The `pistonphone_calibration.enaml` file calls a custom function, `calculate_sens` once the experiment is complete to calculate the sensitivity of the microphone. Note that the callback for the custom function is defined inside the extension to the `psi.controller.io` point.


Input/Output
............

Example of an input-output plugin:

.. code-block:: enaml

    Extension:
        id = EXPERIMENT + '.io'
        point = 'psi.controller.io'

        Blocked: hw_ai:
            duration = 0.1
            name = 'hw_ai'
            source_name = C.input_channel
            source ::
                # Once the channel is linked
                channel.start_trigger = ''
                channel.samples = round(C.sample_duration * channel.fs)
                channel.input_gain = C.input_gain

`C` is a controller manifest-level variable that allows for lookup of values defined via the context.


Creating your own custom plugins
................................

When defining your own subclasses of `PSIManifest`, we recommend the following naming convetions to minimize name collisions:

.. code-block:: enaml

    Extension:
        id = manifest.id + '.commands'
        point = 'enaml.workbench.core.commands'

        Command:
            id = contribution.name + '.do_action'
            ...

All subclasses of `PSIManifest` have access to the attached `contribution` (an instance of `PSIContribution`) as an attribute.

Common gotchas
--------------
* Outputs and inputs are configured *only if they are deemed active*. If the output of a particular processing chain (e.g., microphone to IIR filter to extract epochs) is not saved to a data store or plotted, then it's assumed it is not used. The controller will then omit this particular processing chain from the configuration to alleviate system load. This allows us to design intensive processing chains but allow the user to disable them easily by not plotting the result. However, this can be a bit tricky when defining your own custom sinks For example, there's no target for `AnalyzeDPOAE` in `dpoae_base.enaml` (TODO finish).
* When adding new attributes to subclasses of `Declarative`, be sure to use `d_` as appropriate otherwise you will get a `TypeError` when attempting to assign to the attribute in an Enaml file.
* Use `set_default` when setting default values for classes derived from `Atom` (hint, `Declarative` is a subclass of `Atom`). 
* Even if you define a `ContinuousOutput`, you still need to configure it to start using an `ExperimentAction`. Assuming your continuous output is named "masker", then it's as simple as adding the following action:

.. code-block:: enaml

    ExperimentAction:
        event = 'engines_configured'
        command = 'masker.start'

* You must always call `psi.context.initialize`. This is not automatically done for you for a variety of reasons. Usually it's sufficient to insert the following action:

.. code-block:: enaml

    ExperimentAction:
        event = 'experiment_initialize'
        command = 'psi.context.initialize'
        kwargs = {'selector': None}

Commit message:

Add overview of experiment paradigm description

docs/source/creating_experiment.rst, after:

==========================
Designing a new experiment
==========================

Getting started
---------------

For a broad overview of the components involved in defining an experiment, see `paradigms_overview`.

Core plugins
------------
Psiexperiment ships with five core plugins that are always loaded when an experiment is started:

* **Context** - 
* **Data** - Manages saving, analysis and plotting of data.
* **Controller** - Manages experiment.
* **Token** - Manages generation of both epoch (i.e., finite in duration) and continuous (i.e., infinite in duration) waveforms.
* **Calibration** - Manages calibrations of inputs and outputs. Right now only acoustic inputs and outputs (e.g., microphones and speakers) are supported. Offers chirp, golay and tone-based calibration algorithms.


Getting started
---------------

Psiexperiment is a plugin-based system where the plugins determine the experiment workflow. At a minimum, an experiment must provide the following:

* A list of parameters and/or results
* The inputs and outputs that will be used
* The stimuli (i.e., tokens) that will be generated
* Actions to take when certain events occur.
 
Your experiment configuration file will define `EXPERIMENT`, which is the name of the experiment and will typically contain the following extensions:

.. code-block:: enaml

    enamldef ControllerManifest(BaseManifest): manifest:

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.sinks'
            point = 'psi.data.sinks'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.tokens'
            point = 'psi.token.tokens'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.io'
            point = 'psi.controller.io'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.selectors'
            point = 'psi.context.selectors'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.context'
            point = 'psi.context.items'
            ...

        Extension:
            id = EXPERIMENT + '.actions'
            point = 'psi.controller.actions'
            ...

Let's take a closer look at each of the extensions.

Actions
.......

At a minimum, you will typically define the following two actions (customized for your needs):

.. code-block:: enaml

    Extension:
        id = EXPERIMENT + '.actions'
        point = 'psi.controller.actions'

        ExperimentAction:
            event = 'experiment_initialize'
            command = 'psi.context.initialize'
            kwargs = {'selector': 'default', 'cycles': 1}

        ExperimentAction:
            event = 'engines_configured'
            command = 'dpoae.start'
            kwargs = {'delay': 0.5}

When you press the `start` button on the toolbar, this fires a sequence of three events, `experiment_initialize`, `experiment_prepare` and `experiment_start`.  While `experiment_initialize` and `experiment_prepare` are very similar, certain actions may require that the context has been initialized. To simplify this, we have added `experiment_initialize`. The `psi.context.initialize` command should *always* be bound to this event (if it's bound to `experiment_prepare`, you may get errors if commands bound to `experiment_prepare` need to get the current value of a variable).

Under the hood, the controller will configure the engines during the `experiment_prepare` phase. If you want to configure one of the outputs (in this case, `dpoae`) during this phase, be sure to bind it to the `engine_configured` event to ensure it gets executed after the engine is configured (the engine must be configured before it can properly receive waveform samples from the outputs).


Sequence of events during an experiment
.......................................
* `plugins_started` - All plugins have finished loading. Now, you can perform actions that may require access to another plugin; however, do not assume that the plugins have finished initializing. A number of logging actions are tied to this step.

* `experiment_initialize` - All plugins should have been initialized. This is where you will typically initialize the context (and nothing else).

* `context_initialized` - This only follows `experiment_initialize` if `psi.context.initialize` has properly been bound to `experiment_initialize`. The `psi.context.finalize_io` method is called during this event. During this step, all "orphan" inputs and outputs (i.e., ones where the target or source is specified by name rather than as part of the hierarchy) are connected.

* `experiment_prepare` - The majority of actions required prior to starting an experiment should be tied to this event since the context will now be available for queries.

* `engines_configured` - TODO

* `experiment_start` - Starts the data acquisition engines.

* `experiment_end` - Stops the data acquisition engines.


The power of actions
....................
Actions allow you to insert your own code or invoke commands at any point in the experiment process. A few examples:

* The `abr_base.enaml` file calls a custom function when the `experiment_prepare` event is called. This function reviews the settings specified by the user to determine the sequence of the tone pips (e.g., conventional vs. interleaved, alternating polarity, etc.) and sets up the queue accordingly. While it's theoretically possible to set this using plugins offered by psiexperiment (e.g., alternating polarity could be specified as a "roving" context item), this custom function makes the user interface much simpler and more fool-proof.

* The `pistonphone_calibration.enaml` file calls a custom function, `calculate_sens` once the experiment is complete to calculate the sensitivity of the microphone. Note that the callback for the custom function is defined inside the extension to the `psi.controller.io` point.


Input/Output
............

Example of an input-output plugin:

.. code-block:: enaml

    Extension:
        id = EXPERIMENT + '.io'
        point = 'psi.controller.io'

        Blocked: hw_ai:
            duration = 0.1
            name = 'hw_ai'
            source_name = C.input_channel
            source ::
                # Once the channel is linked
                channel.start_trigger = ''
                channel.samples = round(C.sample_duration * channel.fs)
                channel.input_gain = C.input_gain

``C`` is a controller manifest-level variable that allows for lookup of values defined via the context.


Creating your own custom plugins
................................

When defining your own subclasses of ``PSIManifest``, we recommend the following naming convetions to minimize name collisions:

.. code-block:: enaml

    Extension:
        id = manifest.id + '.commands'
        point = 'enaml.workbench.core.commands'

        Command:
            id = contribution.name + '.do_action'
            ...

All subclasses of ``PSIManifest`` have access to the attached ``contribution`` (an instance of ``PSIContribution``) as an attribute.

Common gotchas
--------------
* Outputs and inputs are configured *only if they are deemed active*. If the output of a particular processing chain (e.g., microphone to IIR filter to extract epochs) is not saved to a data store or plotted, then it's assumed it is not used. The controller will then omit this particular processing chain from the configuration to alleviate system load. This allows us to design intensive processing chains but allow the user to disable them easily by not plotting the result. However, this can be a bit tricky when defining your own custom sinks For example, there's no target for ``AnalyzeDPOAE`` in ``dpoae_base.enaml`` (TODO finish).
* When adding new attributes to subclasses of ``Declarative``, be sure to use ``d_`` as appropriate otherwise you will get a ``TypeError`` when attempting to assign to the attribute in an Enaml file.
* Use ``set_default`` when setting default values for classes derived from ``Atom`` where the original attribute was defined in a superclass (hint, ``Declarative`` is a subclass of ``Atom``):

.. code-block:: python

    class Channel(Declarative):
        name = Str('input_A')

    class ChannelB(Channel)
        name = set_default('input_B')


* Even if you define a ``ContinuousOutput``, you still need to configure it to start using an ``ExperimentAction``. Assuming your continuous output is named "masker", then it's as simple as adding the following action:

.. code-block:: enaml

    ExperimentAction:
        event = 'engines_configured'
        command = 'masker.start'

* You must always call ``psi.context.initialize``. This is not automatically done for you for a variety of reasons. Usually it's sufficient to insert the following action:

.. code-block:: enaml

    ExperimentAction:
        event = 'experiment_initialize'
        command = 'psi.context.initialize'
        kwargs = {'selector': None}
